Documentation/howto/lisp.rst, before:

..
      Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
      not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain
      a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

      Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
      distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
      WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
      License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations
      under the License.

      Convention for heading levels in Open vSwitch documentation:

      =======  Heading 0 (reserved for the title in a document)
      -------  Heading 1
      ~~~~~~~  Heading 2
      +++++++  Heading 3
      '''''''  Heading 4

      Avoid deeper levels because they do not render well.

====================
Using LISP tunneling
====================

LISP is a layer 3 tunneling mechanism, meaning that encapsulated packets do not
carry Ethernet headers, and ARP requests shouldn't be sent over the tunnel.
Because of this, there are some additional steps required for setting up LISP
tunnels in Open vSwitch, until support for L3 tunnels will improve.

This guide assumes tunneling between two VMs connected to OVS bridges on
different hypervisors reachable over IPv4.  Of course, more than one VM may be
connected to any of the hypervisors, and a hypervisor may communicate with
several different hypervisors over the same lisp tunneling interface.  A LISP
"map-cache" can be implemented using flows, see example at the bottom of this
file.

There are several scenarios:

1) the VMs have IP addresses in the same subnet and the hypervisors are also
   in a single subnet (although one different from the VM's);
2) the VMs have IP addresses in the same subnet but the hypervisors are
   separated by a router;
3) the VMs are in different subnets.

In cases 1) and 3) ARP resolution can work as normal: ARP traffic is configured
not to go through the LISP tunnel.  For case 1) ARP is able to reach the other
VM, if both OVS instances default to MAC address learning.  Case 3) requires
the hypervisor be configured as the default router for the VMs.

In case 2) the VMs expect ARP replies from each other, but this is not possible
over a layer 3 tunnel.  One solution is to have static MAC address entries
preconfigured on the VMs (e.g., ``arp -f /etc/ethers`` on startup on Unix based
VMs), or have the hypervisor do proxy ARP.  In this scenario, the eth0
interfaces need not be added to the br0 bridge in the examples below.

On the receiving side, the packet arrives without the original MAC header.  The
LISP tunneling code attaches a header with hard-coded source and destination MAC
address ``02:00:00:00:00:00``.  This address has all bits set to 0, except the
locally administered bit, in order to avoid potential collisions with existing
allocations.  In order for packets to reach their intended destination, the
destination MAC address needs to be rewritten.  This can be done using the flow
table.

See below for an example setup, and the associated flow rules to enable LISP
tunneling.

::

    Diagram

           +---+                               +---+
           |VM1|                               |VM2|
           +---+                               +---+
             |                                   |
        +--[tap0]--+                       +--[tap0]---+
        |          |                       |           |
    [lisp0] OVS1 [eth0]-----------------[eth0] OVS2 [lisp0]
        |          |                       |           |
        +----------+                       +-----------+

On each hypervisor, interfaces tap0, eth0, and lisp0 are added to a single
bridge instance, and become numbered 1, 2, and 3 respectively:

::

    $ ovs-vsctl add-br br0
    $ ovs-vsctl add-port br0 tap0
    $ ovs-vsctl add-port br0 eth0
    $ ovs-vsctl add-port br0 lisp0 \
      -- set Interface lisp0 type=lisp options:remote_ip=flow options:key=flow

The last command sets up flow based tunneling on the lisp0 interface.  From
the LISP point of view, this is like having the Tunnel Router map cache
implemented as flow rules.

Flows on br0 should be configured as follows:

::

    priority=3,dl_dst=02:00:00:00:00:00,action=mod_dl_dst:<VMx_MAC>,output:1
    priority=2,in_port=1,dl_type=0x0806,action=NORMAL
    priority=1,in_port=1,dl_type=0x0800,vlan_tci=0,nw_src=<EID_prefix>,action=set_field:<OVSx_IP>->tun_dst,output:3
    priority=0,action=NORMAL

The third rule is like a map cache entry: the ``<EID_prefix>`` specified by the
``nw_src`` match field is mapped to the RLOC ``<OVSx_IP>``, which is set as the
tunnel destination for this particular flow.

Optionally, if you want to use Instance ID in a flow, you can add
``set_tunnel:<IID>`` to the action list.

Commit message:

netdev-vport: Deprecate LISP tunnel port type.
Tunnel support is in upstream Linux kernel since 2013.  However,
despite the FAQ saying so, I'm not aware of actual attempts to bring
support for LISP tunnels upstream.  The only available implementation
is in OOT kernel module shipped with OVS 2.17.  It is deprecated and
will reach EoL in Feb 2025.

Mark the tunnel port type as deprecated, so we can fully remove the
support once the only available implementation reaches end of life
together with OVS 2.17.

Acked-by: Eelco Chaudron <echaudro@redhat.com>
Signed-off-by: Ilya Maximets <i.maximets@ovn.org>

Documentation/howto/lisp.rst, after:

..
      Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
      not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain
      a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

      Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
      distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
      WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
      License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations
      under the License.

      Convention for heading levels in Open vSwitch documentation:

      =======  Heading 0 (reserved for the title in a document)
      -------  Heading 1
      ~~~~~~~  Heading 2
      +++++++  Heading 3
      '''''''  Heading 4

      Avoid deeper levels because they do not render well.

====================
Using LISP tunneling
====================

.. warning::

   LISP tunnel port type is deprecated and will be removed in OVS 3.6.

LISP is a layer 3 tunneling mechanism, meaning that encapsulated packets do not
carry Ethernet headers, and ARP requests shouldn't be sent over the tunnel.
Because of this, there are some additional steps required for setting up LISP
tunnels in Open vSwitch, until support for L3 tunnels will improve.

This guide assumes tunneling between two VMs connected to OVS bridges on
different hypervisors reachable over IPv4.  Of course, more than one VM may be
connected to any of the hypervisors, and a hypervisor may communicate with
several different hypervisors over the same lisp tunneling interface.  A LISP
"map-cache" can be implemented using flows, see example at the bottom of this
file.

There are several scenarios:

1) the VMs have IP addresses in the same subnet and the hypervisors are also
   in a single subnet (although one different from the VM's);
2) the VMs have IP addresses in the same subnet but the hypervisors are
   separated by a router;
3) the VMs are in different subnets.

In cases 1) and 3) ARP resolution can work as normal: ARP traffic is configured
not to go through the LISP tunnel.  For case 1) ARP is able to reach the other
VM, if both OVS instances default to MAC address learning.  Case 3) requires
the hypervisor be configured as the default router for the VMs.

In case 2) the VMs expect ARP replies from each other, but this is not possible
over a layer 3 tunnel.  One solution is to have static MAC address entries
preconfigured on the VMs (e.g., ``arp -f /etc/ethers`` on startup on Unix based
VMs), or have the hypervisor do proxy ARP.  In this scenario, the eth0
interfaces need not be added to the br0 bridge in the examples below.

On the receiving side, the packet arrives without the original MAC header.  The
LISP tunneling code attaches a header with hard-coded source and destination MAC
address ``02:00:00:00:00:00``.  This address has all bits set to 0, except the
locally administered bit, in order to avoid potential collisions with existing
allocations.  In order for packets to reach their intended destination, the
destination MAC address needs to be rewritten.  This can be done using the flow
table.

See below for an example setup, and the associated flow rules to enable LISP
tunneling.

::

    Diagram

           +---+                               +---+
           |VM1|                               |VM2|
           +---+                               +---+
             |                                   |
        +--[tap0]--+                       +--[tap0]---+
        |          |                       |           |
    [lisp0] OVS1 [eth0]-----------------[eth0] OVS2 [lisp0]
        |          |                       |           |
        +----------+                       +-----------+

On each hypervisor, interfaces tap0, eth0, and lisp0 are added to a single
bridge instance, and become numbered 1, 2, and 3 respectively:

::

    $ ovs-vsctl add-br br0
    $ ovs-vsctl add-port br0 tap0
    $ ovs-vsctl add-port br0 eth0
    $ ovs-vsctl add-port br0 lisp0 \
      -- set Interface lisp0 type=lisp options:remote_ip=flow options:key=flow

The last command sets up flow based tunneling on the lisp0 interface.  From
the LISP point of view, this is like having the Tunnel Router map cache
implemented as flow rules.

Flows on br0 should be configured as follows:

::

    priority=3,dl_dst=02:00:00:00:00:00,action=mod_dl_dst:<VMx_MAC>,output:1
    priority=2,in_port=1,dl_type=0x0806,action=NORMAL
    priority=1,in_port=1,dl_type=0x0800,vlan_tci=0,nw_src=<EID_prefix>,action=set_field:<OVSx_IP>->tun_dst,output:3
    priority=0,action=NORMAL

The third rule is like a map cache entry: the ``<EID_prefix>`` specified by the
``nw_src`` match field is mapped to the RLOC ``<OVSx_IP>``, which is set as the
tunnel destination for this particular flow.

Optionally, if you want to use Instance ID in a flow, you can add
``set_tunnel:<IID>`` to the action list.
