Documentation/topics/dpdk/pdump.rst, before:

..
      Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
      not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain
      a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

      Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
      distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
      WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
      License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations
      under the License.

      Convention for heading levels in Open vSwitch documentation:

      =======  Heading 0 (reserved for the title in a document)
      -------  Heading 1
      ~~~~~~~  Heading 2
      +++++++  Heading 3
      '''''''  Heading 4

      Avoid deeper levels because they do not render well.

=====
pdump
=====

.. versionadded:: 2.6.0

pdump allows you to listen on DPDK ports and view the traffic that is passing
on them. To use this utility, one must have libpcap installed on the system.
Furthermore, DPDK must be built with ``CONFIG_RTE_LIBRTE_PDUMP=y`` and
``CONFIG_RTE_LIBRTE_PMD_PCAP=y``.

.. warning::

   A performance decrease is expected when using a monitoring application like
   the DPDK pdump app.

To use pdump, simply launch OVS as usual, then navigate to the ``app/pdump``
directory in DPDK, ``make`` the application and run like so::

    $ sudo ./build/app/dpdk-pdump -- \
        --pdump port=0,queue=0,rx-dev=/tmp/pkts.pcap \
        --server-socket-path=/usr/local/var/run/openvswitch

The above command captures traffic received on queue 0 of port 0 and stores it
in ``/tmp/pkts.pcap``. Other combinations of port numbers, queues numbers and
pcap locations are of course also available to use. For example, to capture all
packets that traverse port 0 in a single pcap file::

    $ sudo ./build/app/dpdk-pdump -- \
        --pdump 'port=0,queue=*,rx-dev=/tmp/pkts.pcap,tx-dev=/tmp/pkts.pcap' \
        --server-socket-path=/usr/local/var/run/openvswitch

``server-socket-path`` must be set to the value of ``ovs_rundir()`` which
typically resolves to ``/usr/local/var/run/openvswitch``.

Many tools are available to view the contents of the pcap file. Once example is
tcpdump. Issue the following command to view the contents of ``pkts.pcap``::

    $ tcpdump -r pkts.pcap

More information on the pdump app and its usage can be found in the `DPDK
documentation`__.

__ http://dpdk.org/doc/guides/tools/pdump.html

Commit message:

dpdk: Deprecate pdump support.
The conventional way for packet dumping in OVS is to use ovs-tcpdump
that works via traffic mirroring.  DPDK pdump could probably be used
for some lower level debugging, but it is not commonly used for
various reasons.

There are lots of limitations for using this functionality in practice.
Most of them connected with running secondary pdump process and
memory layout issues like requirement to disable ASLR in kernel.
More details are available in DPDK guide:
https://doc.dpdk.org/guides/prog_guide/multi_proc_support.html#multi-process-limitations

Beside the functional limitations it's also hard to use this
functionality correctly.  User must be sure that OVS and pdump utility
are running on different CPU cores, which is hard because non-PMD
threads could float over available CPU cores.  This or any other
misconfiguration will likely lead to crash of the pdump utility
or/and OVS.

Another problem is that the user must actually have this special pdump
utility in a system and it might be not available in distributions.

This change disables pdump support by default introducing special
configuration option '--enable-dpdk-pdump'.  Deprecation warnings will
be shown to users on configuration and in runtime.

Claiming to completely remove this functionality from OVS in one
of the next releases.

Signed-off-by: Ilya Maximets <i.maximets@ovn.org>
Acked-by: Aaron Conole <aconole@redhat.com>
Acked-by: Flavio Leitner <fbl@sysclose.org>
Acked-by: David Marchand <david.marchand@redhat.com>
Signed-off-by: Ian Stokes <ian.stokes@intel.com>

Documentation/topics/dpdk/pdump.rst, after:

..
      Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
      not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain
      a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

      Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
      distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
      WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
      License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations
      under the License.

      Convention for heading levels in Open vSwitch documentation:

      =======  Heading 0 (reserved for the title in a document)
      -------  Heading 1
      ~~~~~~~  Heading 2
      +++++++  Heading 3
      '''''''  Heading 4

      Avoid deeper levels because they do not render well.

=====
pdump
=====

.. versionadded:: 2.6.0

.. warning::

   DPDK pdump support is deprecated in OVS and will be removed in next
   releases.

pdump allows you to listen on DPDK ports and view the traffic that is passing
on them. To use this utility, one must have libpcap installed on the system.
Furthermore, DPDK must be built with ``CONFIG_RTE_LIBRTE_PDUMP=y`` and
``CONFIG_RTE_LIBRTE_PMD_PCAP=y``. OVS should be built with
``--enable-dpdk-pdump`` configuration option.

.. warning::

   A performance decrease is expected when using a monitoring application like
   the DPDK pdump app.

To use pdump, simply launch OVS as usual, then navigate to the ``app/pdump``
directory in DPDK, ``make`` the application and run like so::

    $ sudo ./build/app/dpdk-pdump -- \
        --pdump port=0,queue=0,rx-dev=/tmp/pkts.pcap \
        --server-socket-path=/usr/local/var/run/openvswitch

The above command captures traffic received on queue 0 of port 0 and stores it
in ``/tmp/pkts.pcap``. Other combinations of port numbers, queues numbers and
pcap locations are of course also available to use. For example, to capture all
packets that traverse port 0 in a single pcap file::

    $ sudo ./build/app/dpdk-pdump -- \
        --pdump 'port=0,queue=*,rx-dev=/tmp/pkts.pcap,tx-dev=/tmp/pkts.pcap' \
        --server-socket-path=/usr/local/var/run/openvswitch

``server-socket-path`` must be set to the value of ``ovs_rundir()`` which
typically resolves to ``/usr/local/var/run/openvswitch``.

Many tools are available to view the contents of the pcap file. Once example is
tcpdump. Issue the following command to view the contents of ``pkts.pcap``::

    $ tcpdump -r pkts.pcap

More information on the pdump app and its usage can be found in the `DPDK
documentation`__.

__ http://dpdk.org/doc/guides/tools/pdump.html
