.TH controller 8 "December 2007" "OpenFlow" "OpenFlow Manual"

.SH NAME
controller \- OpenFlow controller reference implementation

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B controller
[OPTIONS] ptcp:[\fIPORT\fR] | nl:\fIDP_IDX\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
A sample OpenFlow controller which functions as an L2 MAC-learning
switch or hub.  \fBcontroller\fR can manage a remote datapath through
a secure channel (see \fBsecchan(8)\fR).  It can also connect directly
to a local datapath via Netlink.

To connect to local datapath number \fIDP_IDX\fR (Linux only), specify
nl:\fIDP_IDX\fR on the command line.  To listen for TCP connections
from remote datapaths on port \fIPORT\fR, specify ptcp:[\fIPORT\fR].
(\fIPORT\fR defaults to 975 if omitted.)

\fBcontroller\fR can control multiple datapaths.  Multiple ptcp: or
nl: arguments may be given.  Multiple TCP clients may connect to a
single TCP server port.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\^\-hub
By default, the controller acts as an L2 MAC-learning switch.  This
option changes its behavior to that of a hub that floods packets on
all ports.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\^\-help
Prints a brief help message to the console.

.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\^\-noflow
This is similar to the \fB\-\^\-hub\fR option, but does not add a
flow entry in the switch.  This causes all traffic seen by the switch
to be passed to the controller before being sent out all ports.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\^\-verbose
Prints debug messages to the console.

.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\^\-version
Prints version information to the console.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
To connect directly to local datapath 0 over Netlink (Linux only):

.B % controller nl:0

.TP
To bind locally to port 975 (the default) and wait for incoming connections from secure channels:

.B % controller ptcp:

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR dpctl (8),
.BR secchan (8)
.BR vlogconf (8)

.SH BUGS
Currently \fBcontroller\fR does not support SSL.
