.TH vlogconf 8 "March 2008" "OpenFlow" "OpenFlow Manual"

.SH NAME
vlogconf \- configuration utility for OpenFlow logging in userspace

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvlogconf\fR [\fB-h\fR | \fB--help\fR] [TARGET...] [ACTION...]
.sp 1
The available TARGET options are:
.br
[\fB-a\fR | \fB--all\fR] [\fB-t\fR PID | \fB--target=\fIPID\fR]
.sp 1
The available ACTION options are:
.br
[\fB-l\fR | \fB--list\fR] [\fB-s\fR
\fIMODULE\fB:\fIFACILITY\fB:\fILEVEL\fR |
\fB--set=\fIMODULE\fB:\fIFACILITY\fB:\fILEVEL\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBvlogconf\fR program configures the logging system used by the 
OpenFlow userspace programs.  The logging configuration may be modified 
while OpenFlow programs are running.

\fBvlogconf\fR applies one or more actions to each of one or more
target processes.  Targets may be specified as:

.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--all\fR
All running processes that \fBvlogconf\fR can control.

.TP
\fB-t \fIPID\fR, \fB--target=\fIPID\fR
The process with the specified \fIPID\fR.  \fIPID\fR may also specify
an absolute path (beginning with `/') to the Unix domain socket for a
\fBvlogconf\fR-controllable process.

.PP
The available actions are:

.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--list\fR
Print the list of known modules and their current logging levels to
stdout.

.TP
\fB-s\fR \fIMODULE\fB:\fIFACILITY\fB:\fILEVEL\fR, \fB--set=\fIMODULE\fB:\fIFACILITY\fB:\fILEVEL\fR

Sets the logging level for \fIMODULE\fR in \fIFACILITY\fR to
\fILEVEL\fR.  \fIMODULE\fR may be any valid module name (as displayed
by the \fB--list\fR option) or the special name \fBANY\fR to set all
modules logging level.  \fIFACILITY\fR may be \fBsyslog\fR or
\fBconsole\fR to set the levels for logging to the system log or to
the console, respectively, or \fBANY\fR to set the logging levels for
both modules.  \fILEVEL\fR must be one of \fBemer\fR, \fBerr\fR,
\fBwarn\fR, or \fBdbg\fR, designating the minimum severity of a
message for it to be logged.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\^\-help\fR
Prints a brief help message to the console and exits.


.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR dpctl (8),
.BR secchan (8),
.BR controller (8)
