Documentation/ref/ovs-appctl.8.rst, before:

==========
ovs-appctl
==========

Synopsis
========

``ovs-appctl``
[``--target=``<target> | ``-t`` <target>]
[``--timeout=``<secs> | ``-T`` <secs>]
[``--format=``<format> | ``-f`` <format>]
<command> [<arg>...]

``ovs-appctl --help``

``ovs-appctl --version``

Description
===========

Open vSwitch daemons accept certain commands at runtime to control
their behavior and query their settings.  Every daemon accepts a
common set of commands documented under `Common Commands`_ below.
Some daemons support additional commands documented in their own
manpages.  ``ovs-vswitchd`` in particular accepts a number of
additional commands documented in ``ovs-vswitchd(8)``.

The ``ovs-appctl`` program provides a simple way to invoke these
commands.  The command to be sent is specified on ``ovs-appctl``'s
command line as non-option arguments.  ``ovs-appctl`` sends the
command and prints the daemon's response on standard output.

In normal use only a single option is accepted:

* ``-t`` <target> or ``--target`` <target>

  Tells ``ovs-appctl`` which daemon to contact.

  If <target> begins with ``/`` it must name a Unix domain socket on
  which an Open vSwitch daemon is listening for control channel
  connections.  By default, each daemon listens on a Unix domain socket
  in the rundir (e.g. ``/run``) named ``<program>.<pid>.ctl``, where
  <program> is the program's name and <pid> is its process ID.  For
  example, if ``ovs-vswitchd`` has PID 123, it would listen on
  ``ovs-vswitchd.123.ctl``.

  Otherwise, ``ovs-appctl`` looks in the rundir for a pidfile, that is,
  a file whose contents are the process ID of a running process as a
  decimal number, named ``<target>.pid``.  (The ``--pidfile`` option
  makes an Open vSwitch daemon create a pidfile.)  ``ovs-appctl`` reads
  the pidfile, then looks in the rundir for a Unix socket named
  ``<target>.<pid>.ctl``, where <pid> is replaced by the process ID read
  from the pidfile, and uses that file as if it had been specified
  directly as the target.

  On Windows, <target> can be an absolute path to a file that contains a
  localhost TCP port on which an Open vSwitch daemon is listening for
  control channel connections. By default, each daemon writes the TCP
  port on which it is listening for control connection into the file
  ``<program>.ctl`` located inside the rundir. If <target> is not an
  absolute path, ``ovs-appctl`` looks in the rundir for a file named
  ``<target>.ctl``.  The default target is ``ovs-vswitchd``.

* ``-T <secs>`` or ``--timeout=<secs>``

  By default, or with a <secs> of ``0``, ``ovs-appctl`` waits forever to
  connect to the daemon and receive a response.  This option limits
  runtime to approximately <secs> seconds.  If the timeout expires,
  ``ovs-appctl`` exits with a ``SIGALRM`` signal.

* ``-f <format>`` or ``--format=<format>``

  Tells ``ovs-appctl`` which output format to use.  By default, or with a
  <format> of ``text``, ``ovs-appctl`` will print plain-text for humans.
  When <format> is ``json``, ``ovs-appctl`` will return a JSON document.
  When ``json`` is requested, but a command has not implemented JSON
  output, the plain-text output will be wrapped in a provisional JSON
  document with the following structure::

    {"reply-format":"plain","reply":"$PLAIN_TEXT_HERE"}

Common Commands
===============

Every Open vSwitch daemon supports a common set of commands, which are
documented in this section.

General Commands
----------------

These commands display daemon-specific commands and the running version.
Note that these commands are different from the ``--help`` and
``--version`` options that return information about the
``ovs-appctl`` utility itself.

* ``list-commands``

  Lists the commands supported by the target.

* ``version``

  Displays the version and compilation date of the target.

Logging Commands
----------------

Open vSwitch has several log levels.  The highest-severity log level is:

* ``off``

  No message is ever logged at this level, so setting a logging
  destination's log level to ``off`` disables logging to that destination.

The following log levels, in order of descending severity, are
available:

* ``emer``

  A major failure forced a process to abort.

* ``err``

  A high-level operation or a subsystem failed.  Attention is
  warranted.

* ``warn``

  A low-level operation failed, but higher-level subsystems may be able
  to recover.

* ``info``

  Information that may be useful in retrospect when investigating
  a problem.

* ``dbg``

  Information useful only to someone with intricate knowledge of the
  system, or that would commonly cause too-voluminous log output.  Log
  messages at this level are not logged by default.

Every Open vSwitch daemon supports the following commands for examining
and adjusting log levels:

* ``vlog/list``

  Lists the known logging modules and their current levels.

* ``vlog/list-pattern``

  Lists logging pattern used for each destination.

* ``vlog/set`` [<spec>]

  Sets logging levels.  Without any <spec>, sets the log level for
  every module and destination to ``dbg``.  Otherwise, <spec> is a
  list of words separated by spaces or commas or colons, up to one from
  each category below:

  * A valid module name, as displayed by the ``vlog/list`` command on
    ``ovs-appctl(8)``, limits the log level change to the specified
    module.

  * ``syslog``, ``console``, or ``file``, to limit the log level
    change to only to the system log, to the console, or to a file,
    respectively.

    On Windows platform, ``syslog`` is only useful if <target> was
    started with the ``--syslog-target`` option (it has no effect
    otherwise).

  * ``off``, ``emer``, ``err``, ``warn``, ``info``, or ``dbg``, to
    control the log level.  Messages of the given severity or higher
    will be logged, and messages of lower severity will be filtered out.
    ``off`` filters out all messages.

  Case is not significant within <spec>.

  Regardless of the log levels set for ``file``, logging to a file
  will not take place unless the target application was invoked with the
  ``--log-file`` option.

  For compatibility with older versions of OVS, ``any`` is accepted
  within <spec> but it has no effect.

* ``vlog/set PATTERN:<destination>:<pattern>``

  Sets the log pattern for <destination> to <pattern>.  Each time a
  message is logged to <destination>, <pattern> determines the
  message's formatting.  Most characters in <pattern> are copied
  literally to the log, but special escapes beginning with ``%`` are
  expanded as follows:

  * ``%A``

    The name of the application logging the message, e.g. ``ovs-vswitchd``.

  * ``%B``

    The RFC5424 syslog PRI of the message.

  * ``%c``

    The name of the module (as shown by ``ovs-appctl --list``) logging
    the message.

  * ``%d``

    The current date and time in ISO 8601 format (YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS).

  * ``%d{<format>}``

    The current date and time in the specified <format>, which takes
    the same format as the <template> argument to ``strftime(3)``.  As
    an extension, any ``#`` characters in <format> will be replaced by
    fractional seconds, e.g. use ``%H:%M:%S.###`` for the time to the
    nearest millisecond.  Sub-second times are only approximate and
    currently decimal places after the third will always be reported
    as zero.

  * ``%D``

    The current UTC date and time in ISO 8601 format (YYYY-MM-DD
    HH:MM:SS).

  * ``%D{<format>}``

    The current UTC date and time in the specified <format>, which
    takes the same format as the <template> argument to
    ``strftime``(3).  Supports the same extension for sub-second
    resolution as ``%d{...}``.

  * ``%E``

    The hostname of the node running the application.

  * ``%m``

    The message being logged.

  * ``%N``

    A serial number for this message within this run of the program,
    as a decimal number.  The first message a program logs has serial
    number 1, the second one has serial number 2, and so on.

  * ``%n``

    A new-line.

  * ``%p``

    The level at which the message is logged, e.g. ``DBG``.

  * ``%P``

    The program's process ID (pid), as a decimal number.

  * ``%r``

    The number of milliseconds elapsed from the start of the
    application to the time the message was logged.

  * ``%t``

    The subprogram name, that is, an identifying name for the process
    or thread that emitted the log message, such as ``monitor`` for
    the process used for ``--monitor`` or ``main`` for the primary
    process or thread in a program.

  * ``%T``

    The subprogram name enclosed in parentheses, e.g. ``(monitor)``,
    or the empty string for the primary process or thread in a
    program.

  * ``%%``

    A literal ``%``.

  A few options may appear between the ``%`` and the format specifier
  character, in this order:

  * ``-``

    Left justify the escape's expansion within its field width.  Right
    justification is the default.

  * ``0``

    Pad the field to the field width with ``0`` characters.  Padding
    with spaces is the default.

  * <width>

    A number specifies the minimum field width.  If the escape expands
    to fewer characters than <width> then it is padded to fill the
    field width.  (A field wider than <width> is not truncated to
    fit.)

  The default pattern for console and file output is ``%D{%Y-%m-%dT
  %H:%M:%SZ}|%05N|%c|%p|%m``; for syslog output, ``%05N|%c|%p|%m``.

  Daemons written in Python (e.g. ``ovs-monitor-ipsec``) do not allow
  control over the log pattern.

* ``vlog/set FACILITY:<facility>``

  Sets the RFC5424 facility of the log message. <facility> can be one
  of ``kern``, ``user``, ``mail``, ``daemon``, ``auth``, ``syslog``,
  ``lpr``, ``news``, ``uucp``, ``clock``, ``ftp``, ``ntp``, ``audit``,
  ``alert``, ``clock2``, ``local0``, ``local1``, ``local2``,
  ``local3``, ``local4``, ``local5``, ``local6`` or ``local7``.

* ``vlog/close``

  Causes the daemon to close its log file, if it is open.  (Use
  ``vlog/reopen`` to reopen it later.)

* ``vlog/reopen``

  Causes the daemon to close its log file, if it is open, and then
  reopen it.  (This is useful after rotating log files, to cause a new
  log file to be used.)

  This has no effect if the target application was not invoked with
  the ``--log-file`` option.

Options
=======

.. option:: -h, --help

    Prints a brief help message to the console.

.. option:: -V, --version

    Prints version information to the console.

See Also
========

``ovs-appctl`` can control all Open vSwitch daemons, including
``ovs-vswitchd(8)`` and ``ovsdb-server(1)``.

Commit message:

appctl: Add option '--pretty' for pretty-printing JSON output.
With the '--pretty' option, ovs-appctl will now print JSON output in a
more readable fashion, i.e. with additional line breaks, spaces and
sorted dictionary keys.

Signed-off-by: Jakob Meng <code@jakobmeng.de>
Signed-off-by: Ilya Maximets <i.maximets@ovn.org>

Documentation/ref/ovs-appctl.8.rst, after:

==========
ovs-appctl
==========

Synopsis
========

``ovs-appctl``
[``--target=``<target> | ``-t`` <target>]
[``--timeout=``<secs> | ``-T`` <secs>]
[``--format=``<format> | ``-f`` <format>]
[``--pretty``]
<command> [<arg>...]

``ovs-appctl --help``

``ovs-appctl --version``

Description
===========

Open vSwitch daemons accept certain commands at runtime to control
their behavior and query their settings.  Every daemon accepts a
common set of commands documented under `Common Commands`_ below.
Some daemons support additional commands documented in their own
manpages.  ``ovs-vswitchd`` in particular accepts a number of
additional commands documented in ``ovs-vswitchd(8)``.

The ``ovs-appctl`` program provides a simple way to invoke these
commands.  The command to be sent is specified on ``ovs-appctl``'s
command line as non-option arguments.  ``ovs-appctl`` sends the
command and prints the daemon's response on standard output.

In normal use only a single option is accepted:

* ``-t`` <target> or ``--target`` <target>

  Tells ``ovs-appctl`` which daemon to contact.

  If <target> begins with ``/`` it must name a Unix domain socket on
  which an Open vSwitch daemon is listening for control channel
  connections.  By default, each daemon listens on a Unix domain socket
  in the rundir (e.g. ``/run``) named ``<program>.<pid>.ctl``, where
  <program> is the program's name and <pid> is its process ID.  For
  example, if ``ovs-vswitchd`` has PID 123, it would listen on
  ``ovs-vswitchd.123.ctl``.

  Otherwise, ``ovs-appctl`` looks in the rundir for a pidfile, that is,
  a file whose contents are the process ID of a running process as a
  decimal number, named ``<target>.pid``.  (The ``--pidfile`` option
  makes an Open vSwitch daemon create a pidfile.)  ``ovs-appctl`` reads
  the pidfile, then looks in the rundir for a Unix socket named
  ``<target>.<pid>.ctl``, where <pid> is replaced by the process ID read
  from the pidfile, and uses that file as if it had been specified
  directly as the target.

  On Windows, <target> can be an absolute path to a file that contains a
  localhost TCP port on which an Open vSwitch daemon is listening for
  control channel connections. By default, each daemon writes the TCP
  port on which it is listening for control connection into the file
  ``<program>.ctl`` located inside the rundir. If <target> is not an
  absolute path, ``ovs-appctl`` looks in the rundir for a file named
  ``<target>.ctl``.  The default target is ``ovs-vswitchd``.

* ``-T <secs>`` or ``--timeout=<secs>``

  By default, or with a <secs> of ``0``, ``ovs-appctl`` waits forever to
  connect to the daemon and receive a response.  This option limits
  runtime to approximately <secs> seconds.  If the timeout expires,
  ``ovs-appctl`` exits with a ``SIGALRM`` signal.

* ``-f <format>`` or ``--format=<format>``

  Tells ``ovs-appctl`` which output format to use.  By default, or with a
  <format> of ``text``, ``ovs-appctl`` will print plain-text for humans.
  When <format> is ``json``, ``ovs-appctl`` will return a JSON document.
  When ``json`` is requested, but a command has not implemented JSON
  output, the plain-text output will be wrapped in a provisional JSON
  document with the following structure::

    {"reply-format":"plain","reply":"$PLAIN_TEXT_HERE"}

* ``--pretty``

  By default, JSON output is printed as compactly as possible.  This option
  causes JSON in output to be printed in a more readable fashion.  For
  example, members of objects and elements of arrays are printed one
  per line, with indentation.  Requires ``--format=json``.

Common Commands
===============

Every Open vSwitch daemon supports a common set of commands, which are
documented in this section.

General Commands
----------------

These commands display daemon-specific commands and the running version.
Note that these commands are different from the ``--help`` and
``--version`` options that return information about the
``ovs-appctl`` utility itself.

* ``list-commands``

  Lists the commands supported by the target.

* ``version``

  Displays the version and compilation date of the target.

Logging Commands
----------------

Open vSwitch has several log levels.  The highest-severity log level is:

* ``off``

  No message is ever logged at this level, so setting a logging
  destination's log level to ``off`` disables logging to that destination.

The following log levels, in order of descending severity, are
available:

* ``emer``

  A major failure forced a process to abort.

* ``err``

  A high-level operation or a subsystem failed.  Attention is
  warranted.

* ``warn``

  A low-level operation failed, but higher-level subsystems may be able
  to recover.

* ``info``

  Information that may be useful in retrospect when investigating
  a problem.

* ``dbg``

  Information useful only to someone with intricate knowledge of the
  system, or that would commonly cause too-voluminous log output.  Log
  messages at this level are not logged by default.

Every Open vSwitch daemon supports the following commands for examining
and adjusting log levels:

* ``vlog/list``

  Lists the known logging modules and their current levels.

* ``vlog/list-pattern``

  Lists logging pattern used for each destination.

* ``vlog/set`` [<spec>]

  Sets logging levels.  Without any <spec>, sets the log level for
  every module and destination to ``dbg``.  Otherwise, <spec> is a
  list of words separated by spaces or commas or colons, up to one from
  each category below:

  * A valid module name, as displayed by the ``vlog/list`` command on
    ``ovs-appctl(8)``, limits the log level change to the specified
    module.

  * ``syslog``, ``console``, or ``file``, to limit the log level
    change to only to the system log, to the console, or to a file,
    respectively.

    On Windows platform, ``syslog`` is only useful if <target> was
    started with the ``--syslog-target`` option (it has no effect
    otherwise).

  * ``off``, ``emer``, ``err``, ``warn``, ``info``, or ``dbg``, to
    control the log level.  Messages of the given severity or higher
    will be logged, and messages of lower severity will be filtered out.
    ``off`` filters out all messages.

  Case is not significant within <spec>.

  Regardless of the log levels set for ``file``, logging to a file
  will not take place unless the target application was invoked with the
  ``--log-file`` option.

  For compatibility with older versions of OVS, ``any`` is accepted
  within <spec> but it has no effect.

* ``vlog/set PATTERN:<destination>:<pattern>``

  Sets the log pattern for <destination> to <pattern>.  Each time a
  message is logged to <destination>, <pattern> determines the
  message's formatting.  Most characters in <pattern> are copied
  literally to the log, but special escapes beginning with ``%`` are
  expanded as follows:

  * ``%A``

    The name of the application logging the message, e.g. ``ovs-vswitchd``.

  * ``%B``

    The RFC5424 syslog PRI of the message.

  * ``%c``

    The name of the module (as shown by ``ovs-appctl --list``) logging
    the message.

  * ``%d``

    The current date and time in ISO 8601 format (YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS).

  * ``%d{<format>}``

    The current date and time in the specified <format>, which takes
    the same format as the <template> argument to ``strftime(3)``.  As
    an extension, any ``#`` characters in <format> will be replaced by
    fractional seconds, e.g. use ``%H:%M:%S.###`` for the time to the
    nearest millisecond.  Sub-second times are only approximate and
    currently decimal places after the third will always be reported
    as zero.

  * ``%D``

    The current UTC date and time in ISO 8601 format (YYYY-MM-DD
    HH:MM:SS).

  * ``%D{<format>}``

    The current UTC date and time in the specified <format>, which
    takes the same format as the <template> argument to
    ``strftime``(3).  Supports the same extension for sub-second
    resolution as ``%d{...}``.

  * ``%E``

    The hostname of the node running the application.

  * ``%m``

    The message being logged.

  * ``%N``

    A serial number for this message within this run of the program,
    as a decimal number.  The first message a program logs has serial
    number 1, the second one has serial number 2, and so on.

  * ``%n``

    A new-line.

  * ``%p``

    The level at which the message is logged, e.g. ``DBG``.

  * ``%P``

    The program's process ID (pid), as a decimal number.

  * ``%r``

    The number of milliseconds elapsed from the start of the
    application to the time the message was logged.

  * ``%t``

    The subprogram name, that is, an identifying name for the process
    or thread that emitted the log message, such as ``monitor`` for
    the process used for ``--monitor`` or ``main`` for the primary
    process or thread in a program.

  * ``%T``

    The subprogram name enclosed in parentheses, e.g. ``(monitor)``,
    or the empty string for the primary process or thread in a
    program.

  * ``%%``

    A literal ``%``.

  A few options may appear between the ``%`` and the format specifier
  character, in this order:

  * ``-``

    Left justify the escape's expansion within its field width.  Right
    justification is the default.

  * ``0``

    Pad the field to the field width with ``0`` characters.  Padding
    with spaces is the default.

  * <width>

    A number specifies the minimum field width.  If the escape expands
    to fewer characters than <width> then it is padded to fill the
    field width.  (A field wider than <width> is not truncated to
    fit.)

  The default pattern for console and file output is ``%D{%Y-%m-%dT
  %H:%M:%SZ}|%05N|%c|%p|%m``; for syslog output, ``%05N|%c|%p|%m``.

  Daemons written in Python (e.g. ``ovs-monitor-ipsec``) do not allow
  control over the log pattern.

* ``vlog/set FACILITY:<facility>``

  Sets the RFC5424 facility of the log message. <facility> can be one
  of ``kern``, ``user``, ``mail``, ``daemon``, ``auth``, ``syslog``,
  ``lpr``, ``news``, ``uucp``, ``clock``, ``ftp``, ``ntp``, ``audit``,
  ``alert``, ``clock2``, ``local0``, ``local1``, ``local2``,
  ``local3``, ``local4``, ``local5``, ``local6`` or ``local7``.

* ``vlog/close``

  Causes the daemon to close its log file, if it is open.  (Use
  ``vlog/reopen`` to reopen it later.)

* ``vlog/reopen``

  Causes the daemon to close its log file, if it is open, and then
  reopen it.  (This is useful after rotating log files, to cause a new
  log file to be used.)

  This has no effect if the target application was not invoked with
  the ``--log-file`` option.

Options
=======

.. option:: -h, --help

    Prints a brief help message to the console.

.. option:: -V, --version

    Prints version information to the console.

See Also
========

``ovs-appctl`` can control all Open vSwitch daemons, including
``ovs-vswitchd(8)`` and ``ovsdb-server(1)``.
