Documentation/ref/ovs-tcpdump.8.rst, before:

===========
ovs-tcpdump
===========

Synopsis
========

``ovs-tcpdump -i <port> <tcpdump options>...``

Description
===========

``ovs-tcpdump`` creates switch mirror ports in the ``ovs-vswitchd``
daemon and executes ``tcpdump`` to listen against those ports. When
the ``tcpdump`` instance exits, it then cleans up the mirror port it
created.

``ovs-tcpdump`` will not allow multiple mirrors for the same port. It
has some logic to parse the current configuration and prevent
duplicate mirrors.

The ``-i`` option may not appear multiple times.

It is important to note that under Linux-based kernels, tap devices do
not receive packets unless the specific tuntap device has been opened by an
application.  This requires ``CAP_NET_ADMIN`` privileges, so the
``ovs-tcpdump`` command must be run as a user with such permissions (this
is usually a super-user).

Options
=======

* ``-h`` or ``--help``

  Prints a brief help message to the console.

* ``-V`` or ``--version``

  Prints version information to the console.

* ``--db-sock <socket>``

  The Open vSwitch database socket connection string. The default is
  ``unix:<rundir>/db.sock``.

* ``--dump-cmd <command>``

  The command to run instead of ``tcpdump``.

* ``-i`` or ``--interface``

  The interface for which a mirror port should be created, and packets
  should be dumped.

* ``--mirror-to``

  The name of the interface which should be the destination of the mirrored
  packets. The default is ``mi<port>``.

* ``--span``

  If specified, mirror all ports (optional).

See Also
========

``ovs-appctl(8)``, ``ovs-vswitchd(8)``, ``ovs-pcap(1)``,
``ovs-tcpundump(1)``, ``tcpdump(8)``, ``wireshark(8)``.

Commit message:

ofproto-dpif-mirror: Add support for pre-selection filter.
Currently a bridge mirror will collect all packets and tools like
ovs-tcpdump can apply additional filters after they have already been
duplicated by vswitchd. This can result in inefficient collection.

This patch adds support to apply pre-selection to bridge mirrors, which
can limit which packets are mirrored based on flow metadata. This
significantly improves overall vswitchd performance during mirroring if
only a subset of traffic is required.

Signed-off-by: Mike Pattrick <mkp@redhat.com>
Signed-off-by: Ilya Maximets <i.maximets@ovn.org>

Documentation/ref/ovs-tcpdump.8.rst, after:

===========
ovs-tcpdump
===========

Synopsis
========

``ovs-tcpdump -i <port> <tcpdump options>...``

Description
===========

``ovs-tcpdump`` creates switch mirror ports in the ``ovs-vswitchd``
daemon and executes ``tcpdump`` to listen against those ports. When
the ``tcpdump`` instance exits, it then cleans up the mirror port it
created.

``ovs-tcpdump`` will not allow multiple mirrors for the same port. It
has some logic to parse the current configuration and prevent
duplicate mirrors.

The ``-i`` option may not appear multiple times.

It is important to note that under Linux-based kernels, tap devices do
not receive packets unless the specific tuntap device has been opened by an
application.  This requires ``CAP_NET_ADMIN`` privileges, so the
``ovs-tcpdump`` command must be run as a user with such permissions (this
is usually a super-user).

Options
=======

* ``-h`` or ``--help``

  Prints a brief help message to the console.

* ``-V`` or ``--version``

  Prints version information to the console.

* ``--db-sock <socket>``

  The Open vSwitch database socket connection string. The default is
  ``unix:<rundir>/db.sock``.

* ``--dump-cmd <command>``

  The command to run instead of ``tcpdump``.

* ``-i`` or ``--interface``

  The interface for which a mirror port should be created, and packets
  should be dumped.

* ``--mirror-to``

  The name of the interface which should be the destination of the mirrored
  packets. The default is ``mi<port>``.

* ``--span``

  If specified, mirror all ports (optional).

* ``--filter <flow>``

  If specified, only mirror packets that match the provided OpenFlow filter.
  The available fields are documented in ``ovs-fields(7)``.

See Also
========

``ovs-appctl(8)``, ``ovs-vswitchd(8)``, ``ovs-pcap(1)``,
``ovs-fields(7)``, ``ovs-tcpundump(1)``, ``tcpdump(8)``,
``wireshark(8)``.
