=======
ovs-pki
=======

Synopsis
========

Each command takes the form:

``ovs-pki <options> <command> <args>...``

The implemented commands and their arguments are:

* ``ovs-pki init``

* ``ovs-pki req <name>``

* ``ovs-pki sign <name> [<type>]``

* ``ovs-pki req+sign <name> [<type>]``

* ``ovs-pki verify <name> [<type>]``

* ``ovs-pki fingerprint <file>``

* ``ovs-pki self-sign <name>``

Each <type> above is a certificate type, either ``switch``
(default) or ``controller``.

The available options are:

* ``-k <type>`` or ``--key=<type>``

* ``-B <nbits>`` or ``--bits=<nbits>``

* ``-D <file>`` or ``--dsaparam=<file>``

* ``-b`` or ``--batch``

* ``-f`` or ``--force``

* ``-d <dir>`` or ``--dir=<dir>``

* ``-l <file>`` or ``--log=<file>``

* ``-u`` or ``--unique``

* ``-h`` or ``--help``


Description
===========

The ``ovs-pki`` program sets up and manages a public key
infrastructure for use with OpenFlow.  It is intended to be a simple
interface for organizations that do not have an established public key
infrastructure.  Other PKI tools can substitute for or supplement the
use of ``ovs-pki``.

``ovs-pki`` uses ``openssl(1)`` for certificate management and key
generation.

Offline Commands
================

The following ``ovs-pki`` commands support manual PKI administration:

* ``init``

  Initializes a new PKI (by default in ``/var/lib/openvswitch/pki``,
  although this default may be changed at Open vSwitch build time) and
  populates it with a pair of certificate authorities for controllers
  and switches.

  This command should ideally be run on a high-security machine
  separate from any OpenFlow controller or switch, called the CA
  machine.  The files ``pki/controllerca/cacert.pem`` and
  ``pki/switchca/cacert.pem`` that it produces will need to be copied
  over to the OpenFlow switches and controllers, respectively.  Their
  contents may safely be made public.

  By default, ``ovs-pki`` generates 2048-bit RSA keys.  The ``-B`` or
  ``--bits`` option (see below) may be used to override the key
  length.  The ``-k dsa`` or ``--key=dsa`` option may be used to use
  DSA in place of RSA.  If DSA is selected, the ``dsaparam.pem`` file
  generated in the new PKI hierarchy must be copied to any machine on
  which the ``req`` command (see below) will be executed.  Its
  contents may safely be made public.

  Other files generated by ``init`` may remain on the CA machine.  The
  files ``pki/controllerca/private/cakey.pem`` and
  ``pki/switchca/private/cakey.pem`` have particularly sensitive
  contents that should not be exposed.

* ``req <name>``

  Generates a new private key named ``<name>-privkey.pem`` and
  corresponding certificate request named ``<name>-req.pem``.
  The private key can be intended for use by a switch or a controller.

  This command should ideally be run on the switch or controller that
  will use the private key to identify itself.  The file
  ``<name>-req.pem`` must be copied to the CA machine for signing
  with the ``sign`` command (below).

  This command will output a fingerprint to stdout as its final step.
  Write down the fingerprint and take it to the CA machine before
  continuing with the ``sign`` step.

  When RSA keys are in use (as is the default), ``req``, unlike the
  rest of the ``ovs-pki`` commands, does not need access to a PKI
  hierarchy created by ``ovs-pki init``.  The ``-B`` or
  ``--bits`` option (see below) may be used to specify the number of
  bits in the generated RSA key.

  When DSA keys are used (as specified with ``--key=dsa``), ``req``
  needs access to the ``dsaparam.pem`` file created as part of the PKI
  hierarchy (but not to other files in that tree).  By default,
  ``ovs-pki`` looks for this file in the PKI directory as
  ``dsaparam.pem``, but the ``-D`` or ``--dsaparam`` option (see
  below) may be used to specify an alternate location.

  ``<name>-privkey.pem`` has sensitive contents that should not be
  exposed.  ``<name>-req.pem`` may be safely made public.

* ``sign <name> [<type>]``

  Signs the certificate request named ``<name>-req.pem`` that was
  produced in the previous step, producing a certificate named
  ``<name>-cert.pem``.  <type>, either ``switch`` (default) or
  ``controller``, indicates the use for which the key is being
  certified.

  This command must be run on the CA machine.

  The command will output a fingerprint to stdout and request that you
  verify that it is the same fingerprint output by the ``req``
  command.  This ensures that the request being signed is the same one
  produced by ``req``.  (The ``-b`` or ``--batch`` option
  suppresses the verification step.)

  The file ``<name>-cert.pem`` will need to be copied back to the
  switch or controller for which it is intended.  Its contents may
  safely be made public.

* ``req+sign <name> [<type>]``

  Combines the ``req`` and ``sign`` commands into a single step,
  outputting all the files produced by each.  The
  ``<name>-privkey.pem`` and ``<name>-cert.pem`` files must
  be copied securely to the switch or controller.
  ``<name>-privkey.pem`` has sensitive contents and must not be
  exposed in transit.  Afterward, it should be deleted from the CA
  machine.

  This combined method is, theoretically, less secure than the
  individual steps performed separately on two different machines,
  because there is additional potential for exposure of the private
  key.  However, it is also more convenient.

* ``verify <name> [<type>]``

  Verifies that ``<name>-cert.pem`` is a valid certificate for the
  given <type> of use, either ``switch`` (default) or ``controller``.
  If the certificate is valid for this use, it prints the message
  ``<name>-cert.pem: OK``; otherwise, it prints an error message.

* ``fingerprint <file>``

  Prints the fingerprint for <file>.  If <file> is a
  certificate, then this is the SHA-1 digest of the DER encoded version
  of the certificate; otherwise, it is the SHA-1 digest of the entire
  file.

* ``self-sign <name>``

  Signs the certificate request named ``<name>-req.pem`` using the
  private key ``<name>-privkey.pem``, producing a self-signed
  certificate named ``<name>-cert.pem``.  The input files should have
  been produced with ``ovs-pki req``.

  Some controllers accept such self-signed certificates.

Options
=======

* ``-k <type>`` or ``--key=<type>``

  For the ``init`` command, sets the public key algorithm to use for
  the new PKI hierarchy.  For the ``req`` and ``req+sign`` commands,
  sets the public key algorithm to use for the key to be generated,
  which must match the value specified on ``init``.  With other
  commands, the value has no effect.

  The <type> may be ``rsa`` (the default) or ``dsa``.

* ``-B <nbits>`` or ``--bits=<nbits>``

  Sets the number of bits in the key to be generated.  When RSA keys are
  in use, this option affects only the ``init``, ``req``, and
  ``req+sign`` commands, and the same value should be given each time.
  With DSA keys are in use, this option affects only the ``init``
  command.

  The value must be at least 1024.  The default is 2048.

* ``-D <file>`` or ``--dsaparam=<file>``

  Specifies an alternate location for the ``dsaparam.pem`` file
  required by the ``req`` and ``req+sign`` commands.  This option
  affects only these commands, and only when DSA keys are used.

  The default is ``dsaparam.pem`` under the PKI hierarchy.

* ``-b`` or ``--batch``

  Suppresses the interactive verification of fingerprints that the
  ``sign`` command by default requires.

* ``-d <dir>`` or ``--dir=<dir>``

  Specifies the location of the PKI hierarchy to be used or created by
  the command.  All commands, except ``req``, need access to a PKI
  hierarchy.

  The default PKI hierarchy is ``/var/lib/openvswitch/pki``, although
  this default may be changed at Open vSwitch build time

* ``-f`` or ``--force``

  By default, ``ovs-pki`` will not overwrite existing files or
  directories.  This option overrides this behavior.

* ``-l <file>`` or ``--log=<file>``

  Sets the log file to <file>.  The default is ``ovs-pki.log`` in the
  OVS log directory.  The default OVS log directory is
  ``/var/log/openvswitch``, although this default may be changed at
  Open vSwitch build time.

* ``-u`` or ``--unique``

  Changes the format of the certificate's Common Name (CN) field.  By
  default, this field has the format ``<name> id:<uuid-or-date>``.  This
  option causes the provided name to be treated as unique and changes
  the format of the CN field to be simply ``<name>``.

* ``-h`` or ``--help``

  Prints a help usage message and exits.
