Documentation/topics/language-bindings.rst, before:

..
      Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
      not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain
      a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

      Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
      distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
      WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
      License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations
      under the License.

      Convention for heading levels in Open vSwitch documentation:

      =======  Heading 0 (reserved for the title in a document)
      -------  Heading 1
      ~~~~~~~  Heading 2
      +++++++  Heading 3
      '''''''  Heading 4

      Avoid deeper levels because they do not render well.

=================
Language Bindings
=================

Bindings exist for Open vSwitch in a variety of languages.

Official Bindings
-----------------

Python
~~~~~~

The Python bindings are part of the `Open vSwitch package`__. You can install
the bindings using ``pip``:

::

   $ pip install ovs

__ https://github.com/openvswitch/ovs/tree/master/python/ovs

Third-Party Bindings
--------------------

Lua
~~~

- `LJIT2ovs:`__ LuaJIT binding for Open vSwitch

__ https://github.com/wiladams/LJIT2ovs

Go
~~

- `go-odp:`__ A Go library to control the Open vSwitch in-kernel datapath

__ https://github.com/weaveworks/go-odp

Commit message:

python: Add mask, ip and eth decoders.
Add more decoders that can be used by KVParser.

For IPv4 and IPv6 addresses, create a new class that wraps
netaddr.IPAddress.
For Ethernet addresses, create a new class that wraps netaddr.EUI.
For Integers, create a new class that performs basic bitwise mask
comparisons

netaddr is added as a new shoft dependency:
- extras_require in setup.py
- Suggests in deb and rpm packages

Acked-by: Eelco Chaudron <echaudro@redhat.com>
Signed-off-by: Adrian Moreno <amorenoz@redhat.com>
Signed-off-by: Ilya Maximets <i.maximets@ovn.org>

Documentation/topics/language-bindings.rst, after:

..
      Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
      not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain
      a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

      Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
      distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
      WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
      License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations
      under the License.

      Convention for heading levels in Open vSwitch documentation:

      =======  Heading 0 (reserved for the title in a document)
      -------  Heading 1
      ~~~~~~~  Heading 2
      +++++++  Heading 3
      '''''''  Heading 4

      Avoid deeper levels because they do not render well.

=================
Language Bindings
=================

Bindings exist for Open vSwitch in a variety of languages.

Official Bindings
-----------------

Python
~~~~~~

The Python bindings are part of the `Open vSwitch package`__. You can install
the bindings using ``pip``:

::

   $ pip install ovs

The Python bindings include an optional flow parsing library. To install it's
required dependencies, run:

::

   $ pip install ovs[flow]

or install `python3-netaddr`.

__ https://github.com/openvswitch/ovs/tree/master/python/ovs

Third-Party Bindings
--------------------

Lua
~~~

- `LJIT2ovs:`__ LuaJIT binding for Open vSwitch

__ https://github.com/wiladams/LJIT2ovs

Go
~~

- `go-odp:`__ A Go library to control the Open vSwitch in-kernel datapath

__ https://github.com/weaveworks/go-odp
